Chat GPT just introduced one of the
biggest updates it's ever had. It's
called Chat GPT Work and it introduced
that along with three new models. One is
called Soul, one is called Terra, one is
called Luna. I'm going to show you how
to combine Chat GPT Work with the best
models. I have five different prompts
that I want to show you, but first let
me show you exactly what's new with this
update. The first thing we have is Chat
GPT Work. That's what I'm going to focus
on mainly for this video and this is an
AI agent that could go complete tasks
for you. So, it takes you away from just
basic chatting inside of chat GPT or
creating things inside of chat to be
able to do a whole lot more and it could
access your computer files, too.
Automatically, I'll show you how this
works. Then we have Chat GPT 5.6. We
have three new models available, Soul,
Terra, and Luna. Now, they're available
in different plans. I'll mention pricing
and different plans in a bit and we have
a brand new Chat GPT desktop app. So,
this is going to give you the Chat GPT
experience with chat. It's going to give
you the new Chat GPT Work and the Codex
here. Now, Chat GPT Work, what it does
is it actually thinks in the background
based on your prompt. It gets all the
context that it needs and it actually
hands over a finished task for you. So,
that's what I'm going to show you with
the five examples I have for this video.
And the different types of things that
it can create based on your prompt is it
could create entire reports, memos, and
drafts. It's really good at creating
spreadsheets and taking care of a lot of
manual things if you work with any type
of data. It's really great at
presentations and it could also create
web apps. And now, you could actually
have hosted sites that you could share a
link to. A very big update. Now, there's
three different models that I mentioned
that came out with this and they
specifically are designed to work with
Chat GPT Work. Soul is the most capable
model. Then you have a more balanced
model called Terra and then Luna is the
fastest model, but the least capable in
this lineup. And if you have to choose
between the different ones, the Soul
model, you're going to want to use it
anytime you do any type of coding,
typically more complex coding, if you
need type of deep reasoning here. And
I'll show you the different capability
as far as how long it thinks to give you
an answer. It has some settings for
that. The Terra model is going to be
basically your general everyday model
here. Again, it's going to be less
expensive. It's going to take up less
credits here.
>> [snorts]
>> And then Luna, I typically, when I use
AI, don't usually use the least capable
model. But if you really need something
for fast replies here, this is a good
low-cost model. For those of you that
are going to build with this and use the
API, these are the costs here. So, Soul,
again, the most expensive here for input
and output tokens. Terra is the default
at half the price, and then this is the
cheap quick model here that's available.
Again, this is for API use. I'll explain
what happens with your regular ChatGPT
account here. If you have a regular free
account or a Go account, it will use
Terra automatically. That's the default
model. Again, that's the replacement for
the regular ChatGPT 5.5 model. And then
if you have a paid version, any of the
paid version, you could choose between
the different models. So, for my
examples with ChatGPT Work, I'm going to
actually decide if I'm going to use
Soul, what kind of thinking capability
within Soul, I'll explain all that in a
bit, or Terra here. And this one also
includes the ChatGPT Work that I'm going
to focus on for this video. So, you do
need a paid plan to use ChatGPT Work and
these better models like Soul. Now, the
Mac and Windows app also have the same
tiers available. The desktop app, the
one thing it's going to give you that
you can't do on the ChatGPT website is
giving it access to folders on your
computer, so it create files on those
folders. Otherwise, you could still use
Work inside of the ChatGPT website,
which is what I'm going to show you
next. Now, just so you see a comparison,
if you are a regular ChatGPT user, and
if you never use Claude, Claude, which
is the biggest competitor to chat GPT,
has something called Claude co-work,
which is very much similar to what I'm
about to show you with chat GPT work.
So, I made that other slideshow I just
showed you with Claude. This is created
with chat GPT. Same type of slide, same
exact prompt here. It took 15 minutes,
by the way, to create this, and I asked
for an update here to make some changes,
and it did. So, I thought this had more
details here, but almost too much text
for a presentation like this, but it did
a pretty good job. Okay, so, to access
chat GPT work, you could do it on the
chat GPT website. It's coming out right
now as I'm recording this, and it's a
tab right here. So, you have chat GPT,
that's your regular chat as always.
Then, you have this new work tab that's
going to hand over finished work for
you. If you use it on the website, it's
going to create those files, and it's
going to give you a link to download it.
It also has hosted sites where you will
get a link to share a website. I'll show
you that as well in couple of the
examples I have. And, on top of that,
you have different models that you could
select from. So, the different models
are, as I mentioned, Sol, Terra, and
Luna. For most of the things related to
work, I would use Sol. For couple of
them, I would drop it down to Terra. Why
wouldn't you use the best model all the
time? Well, even inside of the chat GPT
website, depending on what plan you
have, it will use up credits, and you
may hit a wall, and it's going to tell
you you'll have to upgrade, or you don't
have any more credits, and you have to
wait. That's why you don't want to
always use the very best model with the
best effort. The efforts also could be
changed depending on what model you
choose. So, for the very best, the
hardest tasks you have, you could choose
Sol with max reasoning effort, and you
could also change the speed here to the
fastest. That's going to really eat up
your credits. So, I don't recommend it
for everything, but that's the best
available combination right now inside
of chat GPT. For everyday tasks, you may
want to just choose Terra here with high
reasoning effort. This is pretty much
for most things. And then for Soul, I
would also switch it sometimes to medium
and high. I'll show you with some
examples. I have five different examples
that I want to walk you through. And I
also have a free resource for you
specifically for ChatGPT users. It's
called five essential resources for
using ChatGPT at work. It's actually a
really comprehensive bundle that has all
kinds of different use cases for ChatGPT
with ton of different prompts. In fact,
over 100 different prompts included
here. So, I no longer do sponsorships on
this channel. All I do is find a
resource or create a resource for you
and then I share that based on the type
of videos you're watching. So, this is
actually a perfect fit for ChatGPT work
with the new models because this is
going to give you everything you need to
get the most out of ChatGPT. And it
covers pretty much every business use
case. So, it has a whole section for
sales and marketing, a section for
customer support, for project
management. And one of my favorite parts
is this section right here, 100 ways to
use ChatGPT today. So, it has bunch of
project-based workflows with prompts
included that you could simply copy and
paste or store for yourself for later
use. And with this, you'll get the most
out of ChatGPT work because now you
could hand over finished files for you
and you'll see those in my examples.
I'll put a link in the description. This
is completely free to access. Now, for
this prompt, it's going to analyze every
file that I upload to it. If you do this
on the desktop, you could just give it
access to the files on the folder. So,
say analyze every file in the folder and
then press the plus sign and give it
access to that folder. And I'm going to
ask it to validate the data, clean the
data, do the audit for the data, and
then publish a website here, a
dashboard, and include the data with the
regions. And for this one, the one trick
that I found, and I had a little bit of
early access, so I've been using it more
than most people here.
If you choose a prompt like this, you
could start a chat with ChatGPT and ask
it which model it would recommend. So,
every prompt I did that and then I chose
the model based on that. So, in this
case, based on this prompt and based on
this data, it told me to use the ChatGPT
5.6 Soul model and I wouldn't do this
every single time. I'm just trying to
get a gauge of what it's recommending
every single time. So, instead of using
Max all the time and then Soul all the
time and running out, I'm going to just
take its recommendation here. So, I'm
going to go ahead and send this out. And
before I do that, the other thing I
wanted to show you is you could actually
choose a project and create a project.
This one on the website is just going to
create a ChatGPT project. On your
desktop, you could also create a folder,
so all those files could be dropped into
that folder and create new files in that
folder, too. And you could also give it
access to plugins. And plugins are going
to be the context for your business, for
your company. So, over here, you could
see I have some draft examples here for
Gmail. It's because it read my actual
Gmail and it found out the couple of
things that I need to follow up with.
And by the way, inside of Work here,
you'll see this little new panel here.
So, it's going to show all your outputs
over here. That includes any files it
creates, any sites that it's going to
create here. And it's going to have any
sources. That's your input that I gave
it in this case. I gave it, too. Okay,
so this one took about 15 minutes here
and it actually creates a website for
you. So, before it used to create
something in canvas mode that kind of
looked like this, but now you could
press open and this is a hosted website.
So, it creates a URL and it's at dot
site. And it has all kinds of different
filters here. Really easy to share
something that looks much, much nicer.
Now, the site option was part of ChatGPT
Codex. It was available in the desktop
app, but now it's part of Work. This
makes it so much better and they're
hosted, meaning you just share this link
with anyone and they could see exactly
what you've created here. And this was
just a first draft. For this next
example, I want to show you how to
create a trip planner and actually
create a hosted site that you could
share. So, this is perfect for work,
it's perfect for personal. So, I
uploaded four different files and I
asked it to build a mobile-first hosted
trip hub with a day-to-day itinerary
here and I give it everything that I was
looking to have included. And for this
one, ChatGPT told me to use Terra
instead of Soul at medium reasoning
effort. So, I'll send this out. This one
is done and it did something really
interesting that I really like. I
haven't seen anything else do this
before. It asked me which direction I
wanted to go with this website here that
I'm creating and it gave me three
different options. I chose this one here
and this is the desktop version of it
here and I think it's done a really good
job. It included everything that I was
looking for including a budget. And if I
go ahead and shrink this down just to
show you the mobile version, the mobile
version also looks really, really solid
here which is
initially what I had asked for for a
mobile version with a site that I could
share with my family here with this
made-up plan. Okay, for this next
example, I actually want to create a
PowerPoint presentation here and what I
did was I gave it a previous PowerPoint
presentation here because I haven't
built a skill for it anything like that,
but I wanted to follow what this
PowerPoint presentation looks like. I
gave it a CSV spreadsheet with all the
data here and it told me to use the best
combination possible. 5.6 Soul with max
reasoning effort. Okay, here is our
presentation here and it decided to do a
11-slide presentation. I asked for a
10-to-12-slide presentation. It included
all the information we were looking for
and as far as design here, I actually
downloaded it as a PowerPoint and here
is the PowerPoint and it actually looks
exactly like the demo PowerPoint I gave
it. This is actually the demo PowerPoint
that I gave it to find a style and
replicate that style and it was right on
there. Now, the next one is to create an
entire marketing plan. This is probably
the most impressive because it will
create all the different pieces at one
go. The agent will just do them in
step-by-step. So, create a launch
strategy here, 10-slide presentation,
five-email sequence, 12 social posts,
and three ad concepts. All of this right
here just with this prompt. And this one
I'm going to use 5M6 Soul with extra
height. This one also told me to use
Max, but I don't want to run out of
credits for this demo, so I'll just use
the one just under that. This one took
33 minutes. So, when you do change your
reasoning effort to be extra high or
max, it will take quite a long time, and
my prompt included a lot of asks, right?
So, let me show you the website first.
It's based on some information I gave
it, obviously. So, it took these
sources. So, I give it customer
feedback, guidelines on the brand here,
product brief, and it created this
really nice-looking website that also
looks great on mobile. It created a
launch strategy doc here. So, this is
our 30-day launch plan. And I have been
using Claude for this. I've already been
using ChatGPT to some extent for this,
but remember, this does it all in one go
using this combination of work and these
much better models. So, the output, the
actual information, is far more useful
to you. And then you have your
presentation here. Again, it followed
the brand guidelines. It looks just like
the website here, and it's pretty
comprehensive. It has 10 slides here,
and then we got our campaign kit. So,
this has our emails, our social media
posts. Really, really comprehensive
here. Okay, here's one of my favorite
use cases because it's kind of actually
use plugins and creates an entire
command center. So, it says, "Review my
inbox, my calendar, anything on Slack
here, and then create a one-page command
center for me that includes my
priorities, anything that's urgent." I'm
actually going to use the Luna model and
at max reasoning effort just to show you
kind of what that does. And this is just
for this demo here, so I could actually
show you the result and not just pulling
directly from my plugins, but typically
you will already use your Google
Calendar, you will use your inbox, and
you will use your Slack. You don't have
to these have these exported. That's the
only reason I added this export here.
Okay, here is our one-page command
center for the day. The top priorities,
anything that's urgent here, any
decisions we need to make, and I could
just download this. This is just a PDF
that I created. And it also gave me a
follow-up prompt here to connect my
Gmail and Slack and all my actual apps
here, and then rerun this prompt with a
new work chat, so it could pull directly
from not my example files for this
example, but from my actual sources. So,
that's when it becomes obviously much
more relevant. It's combining those
connectors or those plugins with this
prompt here with ChatGPT work, and you
could do this on the desktop, you could
do this right here on the web here, and
I think this is one of the best ways to
use it to just get all your context for
the day and get a one-page report on
exactly what needs to happen that day.
And I want to combine this with Claude
Co-work, the competitor to ChatGPT work,
which has been my go-to app for a while
now. I want to do side-by-side
comparison with the same prompt, same
reasoning effort, and see how much
credit it uses, what the output ends up
looking like, how accurate it is. So,
I'll have that coming up next. Make sure
you grab that ChatGPT resource to get
the most out of ChatGPT, and I also made
a recent video covering all kinds of
hidden things inside of ChatGPT that
most people don't know. I covered 10 of
them in this video that I recommend you
watch next. Thanks for watching this
one.